README.md, before:

# validate-npm-package-name

Give me a string and I'll tell you if it's a valid `npm` package name.

This package exports a single synchronous function that takes a `string` as
input and returns an object with two properties:

- `validForNewPackages` :: `Boolean`
- `validForOldPackages` :: `Boolean`

## Contents

- [Naming rules](#naming-rules)
- [Examples](#examples)
    + [Valid Names](#valid-names)
    + [Invalid Names](#invalid-names)
- [Legacy Names](#legacy-names)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [License](#license)

## Naming Rules

Below is a list of rules that valid `npm` package name should conform to.

- package name length should be greater than zero
- all the characters in the package name must be lowercase i.e., no uppercase or mixed case names are allowed
- package name *can* consist of hyphens
- package name must *not* contain any non-url-safe characters (since name ends up being part of a URL)
- package name should not start with `.` or `_`
- package name should *not* contain any leading or trailing spaces
- package name should *not* contain any of the following characters: `~)('!*`
- package name *cannot* be the same as a node.js/io.js core module nor a reserved/blacklisted name. For example, the following names are invalid:
    + http
    + stream
    + node_modules
    + favicon.ico
- package name length cannot exceed 214


## Examples

### Valid Names

```js
var validate = require("validate-npm-package-name")

validate("some-package")
validate("example.com")
validate("under_score")
validate("123numeric")
validate("@npm/thingy")
validate("@jane/foo.js")
```

All of the above names are valid, so you'll get this object back:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: true,
  validForOldPackages: true
}
```

### Invalid Names

```js
validate("excited!")
validate(" leading-space:and:weirdchars")
```

That was never a valid package name, so you get this:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: false,
  validForOldPackages: false,
  errors: [
    'name cannot contain leading or trailing spaces',
    'name can only contain URL-friendly characters'
  ]
}
```

## Legacy Names

In the old days of npm, package names were wild. They could have capital
letters in them. They could be really long. They could be the name of an
existing module in node core.

If you give this function a package name that **used to be valid**, you'll see
a change in the value of `validForNewPackages` property, and a warnings array
will be present:

```js
validate("eLaBorAtE-paCkAgE-with-mixed-case-and-more-than-214-characters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------")
```

returns:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: false,
  validForOldPackages: true,
  warnings: [
    "name can no longer contain capital letters",
    "name can no longer contain more than 214 characters"
  ]
}
```

## Tests

```sh
npm install
npm test
```

## License

ISC

Commit message:

Allowed alphanumeric character at the start of package name

README.md, after:

# validate-npm-package-name

Give me a string and I'll tell you if it's a valid `npm` package name.

This package exports a single synchronous function that takes a `string` as
input and returns an object with two properties:

- `validForNewPackages` :: `Boolean`
- `validForOldPackages` :: `Boolean`

## Contents

- [Naming rules](#naming-rules)
- [Examples](#examples)
    + [Valid Names](#valid-names)
    + [Invalid Names](#invalid-names)
- [Legacy Names](#legacy-names)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [License](#license)

## Naming Rules

Below is a list of rules that valid `npm` package name should conform to.

- package name length should be greater than zero
- package name should not be start from a special character.
- package name should not have any uppercase letter from 2nd character onwards.
- package name *can* consist of hyphens
- package name must *not* contain any non-url-safe characters (since name ends up being part of a URL)
- package name should not start with `.` or `_`
- package name should *not* contain any leading or trailing spaces
- package name should *not* contain any of the following characters: `~)('!*`
- package name *cannot* be the same as a node.js/io.js core module nor a reserved/blacklisted name. For example, the following names are invalid:
    + http
    + stream
    + node_modules
    + favicon.ico
- package name length cannot exceed 214


## Examples

### Valid Names

```js
var validate = require("validate-npm-package-name")

validate("some-package")
validate("example.com")
validate("under_score")
validate("123numeric")
validate("@npm/thingy")
validate("@jane/foo.js")
```

All of the above names are valid, so you'll get this object back:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: true,
  validForOldPackages: true
}
```

### Invalid Names

```js
validate("excited!")
validate(" leading-space:and:weirdchars")
```

That was never a valid package name, so you get this:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: false,
  validForOldPackages: false,
  errors: [
    'name cannot contain leading or trailing spaces',
    'name can only contain URL-friendly characters'
  ]
}
```

## Legacy Names

In the old days of npm, package names were wild. They could have capital
letters in them. They could be really long. They could be the name of an
existing module in node core.

If you give this function a package name that **used to be valid**, you'll see
a change in the value of `validForNewPackages` property, and a warnings array
will be present:

```js
validate("eLaBorAtE-paCkAgE-with-mixed-case-and-more-than-214-characters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------")
```

returns:

```js
{
  validForNewPackages: false,
  validForOldPackages: true,
  warnings: [
    "name can no longer contain capital letters",
    "name can no longer contain more than 214 characters"
  ]
}
```

## Tests

```sh
npm install
npm test
```

## License

ISC
